Let's see. In 2025, I think people's
interest in the pharmaceutical industry
and in trusting the pharmaceutical
industry is very poor. And that's
understandable considering what we've
been through in the last few years. But
keep in mind, if you get hormone
replacement therapy because you have low
testosterone, are there side effects to
that? Well,
[Music]
All right, my name is John Jacquish
and today
I'm going to talk about
the logic of pharmaceuticals.
Uh most specifically, what are the
differences between hormones, peptides,
and pharmaceuticals that don't fit into
those categories. So, I'm a doctor of
biomedical engineering. I basically read
research for a living. I've written a
couple books. And I think this summary
of definitions, let's call it
definitions, is really going to help you
make decisions as to what you might want
to consider versus not consider.
Hormones and peptides occur naturally in
the body.
Pharmaceuticals that do not fit in the
hormone or peptide category typically
are chemicals that are not found in
nature. And from a business perspective,
pharmaceutical companies like the
priority is a patent. So they want to
get a patent on a drug so that they can
market it and nobody else can copy it.
And there are very aggressive margins on
pharmaceuticals because of these
patents. Sometimes they're in the
thousands of percent markup from, you
know, development of the drug and and
and putting it out in the marketplace.
You know, I mean, I'm not going to
discuss the the logic of that. I think
some of it is tragic because sometimes
pharmaceutical companies will develop
something that is beneficial for a very
small population. So to recover the
money that they invested, or at least
that's their story, they end up charging
thousands and thousands of dollars per
year or per month for the medication for
people who are absolutely desperate for
it. But I don't want to focus on their
business model because that that's a
multi-hour lecture and we're going to
let RFK handle that. What I want to
focus on is the fact that you get no
benefit specifically when you help a
pharmaceutical company make a ton of
money. It doesn't mean you get better
care. It just means you paid more. So
like for example, there are
recommendations that frequently
physicians make prescriptions physicians
write for newer drugs that have patent
protection. Uh I I mean I have
allergies. So I've been on all sorts of
prescribed
drugs for allergies. I'm not on any
anymore. This was in the past. Like
since I went primarily uh animal
proteinbased, all my allergies went
away. But when I was taking histamine
blockers, it was crazy how every time
there was a new one, I had a doctor who
told me, "Oh, you need to take this new
one. You need to take this new one."
Yet, whenever I would be with one of my
fraternity brothers and somebody would
have an allergic reaction and we'd take
him to the emergency room, what do you
think they gave that person?
They gave him benadryil,
which the patent expired on a long time
ago. So, why' they give him benadryil as
opposed to the newer drugs that have
fresh patents on that? Clearly, there's
a financial incentive. Well, at some
point the medical professionals just
want to make you better. And benadryil
works. And those other things, they
don't work as well as benadryil. So, the
the push is to make something that you
can get a patent on, not the absolute
best care.
And it's just an example. And there's
other examples the other way where new
pharmaceuticals are better than the old
things. But I'm just saying that what
you're being told may not be the full
story. Yeah, I see people who are very
apprehensive
about taking most mostly since let's see
in 2025 I think people's interest in the
pharmaceutical industry and in trusting
the pharmaceutical industry is very poor
and that's understandable considering
what we've been through in the last few
years. But
keep in mind, if you get hormone
replacement therapy because you have low
testosterone, are there side effects to
that? Well,
yes and no. There are ways to avoid the
side effects. There's a new type of
testosterone coming out that I'm going
to be talking about. It's a fast acting
testosterone, and there are no side
effects to that. Uh, turns out that the
side effects really have to do with
timing. So, like if you could use
testosterone and not suppress your own
natural testosterone,
would you do it? Even if basically every
day after it gets out of your system,
runs out runs its course, there are no
negative implications. I mean, if you
need if you're low in testosterone, why
wouldn't you do it? And I I've said this
before,
there are no rewards for white knuckling
it through life, which leads me to
peptides.
There are some peptides
that I really like and I think in
certain circumstances are very
beneficial. Like for example, BPC57,
if you have an injury, you will increase
your rate of recovery. They haven't been
able to find in in all the clinical
trials of this particular peptide,
nobody's found any negative side
effects. When we look at GLP agonist
peptides, well, if there's a medical
need, if somebody's morbidly obese,
why don't we fix that first? And also,
when somebody is taking a GLP agonist
drug, they lose their appetite, which is
really the source of their problem. So
if they use the peptide to build better
habits,
then when they go off, they have better
habits
as long as they stick to those habits.
That that is pretty key to the issue.
But it breaks the cycle of constantly
being addicted to food, which is why I
support these things. I think under the
right circumstances for somebody who
really has trouble with their food
addiction, uh, you know, and and at the
same time, I do not blame anybody who
puts a nicotine patch in their mouth to
try and get over smoking. I also don't
blame people who put a nicotine patch in
their mouth so they can just have
greater brain activity
because nicotine in the absence of
putting burning material in your lungs,
it's a cognitive enhancement.
So
things to keep in mind and I think if
you keep the perspective
of
hormones, peptides
and then drugs not found in nature.
Keep those very separate and I think
you'll be healthier and happier long
term. If this video helped you, I want
you to subscribe and follow. I'm going
to put out videos on a regular basis. I
think they're going to help a whole lot
of people. Especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.